---
layout: post
title: Heinlein's list of skills
imported: 31/01/2013
---

Today, in addition to getting my first ever 'get well soon' card, I sat down to see how
manly I am, according to Robert Heinlein. Here's Heinlein's list of skills:

> A Man should be able to change a diaper, plan an invasion, butcher a hog, conn a ship,
> design a building, write a sonnet, balance accounts, build a wall, set a bone, comfort
> the dying, take orders, give orders, cooperate, act alone, solve equations, analyze a
> new problem, pitch manure, program a computer, cook a tasty meal, fight efficiently and
> die gallantly. Specialization is for insects.

Let's break it down and see how I compare:

1. Cange a diaper: Ah, yes. This I should be able to do.
1. Plan an invasion: No, I'm not a strategist.
1. Butcher a hog: Kill a hog, probably. Butcher it? Probably not.
1. Conn a ship: Not a ship, but a boat, yes.
1. Design a building: No.
1. Write a sonnet: No.
1. Balance accounts: Unfortunately, no. Not my accounts anyway.
1. Build a wall: Yes.
1. Set a bone: I should think so.
1. Comfort the dying: Alas, I would probably be at loss here.
1. Take orders: Yes, grudgingly.
1. Give orders: Yes, unwillingly.
1. Cooperate: Yes.
1. Act alone: Yes.
1. Solve equations: Yes.
1. Analyze a new problem: Yes.
1. Pitch manure: Ugh. If I had too...
1. Program a computer: Yes, most willingly :D
1. Cook a tasty meal: Occasionally.
1. Fight efficiently and die gallantly: Fight efficiently, maybe. Die gallantly, probably not.

Also on the list of things to do today were finishing up the moving-business. I hate
moving. I have too much stuff. I have to get rid of some of this junk, either by sending
it off to Norway or to the tip. I realise that I'm having problems throwing away stuff.
However, I'm finished now. At least it's all in my new room. I now have to find a way to
stash all this junk (the part I'm going to keep of it anyway).

Watched Star Trek.
