#+title: Password-less registration and login
#+date: <2014-12-05>
#+category: Soapbox

I have been thinking about password-less login lately, and wondering
why it's not used more. A couple of days ago I was reading a thread on
[[https://lobste.rs/s/hp5btv/invalid_username_or_password_is_a_useless_security_measure][Lobste.rs]] and came across this [[https://web.archive.org/web/20160407233700/http://nick.zoic.org/etc/the-selfish-secret-logins-without-passwords/][blog post]] by Nick Moore on the subject.
It inspired me to post my own thoughts.

I hate having to remember different passwords for different sites.
Password managers help, but I often end up using a site's “password
reset” feature as a one-time password service. That is: every time I
come to login and use the site I reset my password. I suspect I'm not
the only one. So how about we make that the default login flow?

The basic idea is that rather than supplying an email and a password
when you register or sign in to a site you just supply the email
address. The site sends you an email with an embedded one-time password,
and visiting that link within /N/ minutes will show a big fat "Confirm
Login" or "Confirm Registration" button as appropriate. If the link has
been used before, or you wait longer than /N/ minutes before visiting,
the page simply says the link is no longer valid and prompt you to go
through the process again.

The main benefit to /users/ is that they don't have to remember (or
manage) yet another password for yet another site. There's even more
benefits for the site maintainers though. Since there's no user-supplied
passwords, there's:

1. No need to maintain a separate password reset functionality: users
   always go through the regular login procedure.
2. No need to maintain client-side password strength checks.
3. Less chance an attacker can simply guess or brute-force a password.
   (Let's assume we're not up against clairvoyant attackers that can
   reliably guess UUID-style passwords on the first attempt.)
4. The registration step has baked-in email verification, so there's no
   need to maintain a separate path for that either.

There's only really one snag I can think of compared to the traditional
login + password approach: /We rely on users having convenient access to
their email on the system they're logging in from/. So this scheme would
not be ideal if you're not logging in from your own computer. However,
many of us carry around our computers these days; and most mail
providers offer web mail, so I don't think this is a major roadblock.

Taken to the extreme this snag could land users in real trouble if they
registered with an email address they no longer have access to. With the
traditional approach you could luck out and remember the password, and
thus be able to login. (Although whether you' d be able to update your
email address is another matter: well-behaved sites usually send an
email to your old address for confirmation that you actually want to
update.) Recommending people register a secondary email address, or a
phone number that can receive SMS, could save some support emails in
this situation.

I can imagine some people objecting to requiring an email round-trip to
complete user registration. However, many sites already require email
verification after registration and I don't see this being substantially
different. If anything, it's simpler to maintain because there's just
one path. And there's nothing stopping you from letting them start using
your site straight away and just rely on session state until they've
finished registering.

I've been mulling over the idea of password-less registration and login
for some time, and for the above reasons I am fairly confident it will
work. I don't think there are any glaring security issues compared to
the traditional approach; I am indeed confident it is /more/ secure.

*Update 2014/01/07:* I've received several pieces of feedback on this
post. First a friend pointed out in private email:

#+BEGIN_QUOTE
  There's another way around this problem: something like oauth. Sure,
  it's a fucker to implement correctly, but there are other systems out
  there that offer similar capabilities (Facebook login, your google ID,
  Twitter also support authentication) I don't see what benefit this
  approach offers over those.
#+END_QUOTE

Personally I find OAuth, particularly in mobile apps, a terrible user
experience. It's just about bearable in browser-based apps, but the way
it bounces you back and forth between native mobile apps makes it seem
like your phone is having an epileptic fit. My dad would probably throw
the device across the room in the belief it was possessed. (And would
call me to exorcise it.)

If you've used computers in anger for a while it's easy to get forget
all the horrible things we put up with in the name of security, but I
think OAuth in particular seriously alienates non-technical users. ("I
went to log in, and suddenly I was at a different site! /Crazy!/") And
from the perspective of the site maintainer, if OAuth really /is/ "a
fucker to implement correctly" that alone is a fairly strong argument
against it in my opinion.

Facebook Login, Google ID and Twitter Auth might be simpler to implement
than OAuth. (Disclaimer: I don't know---I've never implemented any of
them.) And all have the benefit that they are well known services, and
so many people trust them---perhaps more than they trust your site!
However they all also suffer the same problem: they require you to have
a particular type of account. I agree that if your site integrates
heavily with Facebook or Twitter then it would be natural to support
Facebook login or Twitter Auth. However if your site offer Google ID and
Facebook login but someone visiting your site only has a Twitter
account, well; that person probably won't register.

Offering /all/ the possible options for third-party login isn't
practical, and as a site maintainer you probably shouldn't try. (In
[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Paradox_of_Choice][Paradox of
Choice]] Barry Schwartz argues that if you give people too many options
it increases their anxiety and the risk that they can't make up their
mind---thus walking away with unfinished business.) Finally, as a site
maintainer you have to trust not only that those services will stick
around in the long term (they probably will!) but that they will
continue to support this service. (I seem to recall that Twitter
discontinued one authentication mechanism and left a lot of users
scrambling for an alternative.)

An email address on the other hand (at least if it's one from a domain
you own) follows /you/ and is not relying on any particular company's
willingness to continue operating a service. Email has other problems
though, as jcs---the "owner" of previously mentioned
[[https://lobste.rs/s/hp5btv/invalid_username_or_password_is_a_useless_security_measure][Lobste.rs]]---pointed
out in
[[https://lobste.rs/s/hp5btv/invalid_username_or_password_is_a_useless_security_measure/comments/vj2k6p#c_vj2k6p][this
comment]]:

-  Anyone with access to an SMTP server in the path between your site
   and the user's mailbox would be able to initiate login as you,
   intercept the email, and use the link in it to log in as you. Thus
   they don't need to be able to actually /log in/ to your email; just
   intercept it in transit. With big providers like Google, Yahoo,
   Hotmail, etc I assume there wouldn't be many hops between your site
   and theirs---and if these organisations wanted your data, well, you
   already host your email with them anyway.
-  Less of a security issue, but more a usability issue, he has found
   that email is unreliable and might not arrive---at least in a timely
   fashion---for numerous reasons including lack of "push" (particularly
   on iOS devices), spam-fighting tricks such as
   [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Greylisting][Grey-listing]], or mail
   simply disappearing (presumably being treated as spam) after being
   accepted by the recipient's SMTP server.

... aaand this is where my enthusiasm for this idea is starting to
falter. I will mull this over a while longer before putting the above
password-less login flow into use.

** Conclusion
   :PROPERTIES:
   :CUSTOM_ID: conclusion
   :END:

In the course of a day I've learnt many reasons why the scheme I
proposed, although having some nice properties in theory, is unlikely to
be successful in practice. I've rediscovered that I can save a lot of
time by---instead of diving into implementation---presenting an idea and
asking people smarter than me what's wrong with it. I should do this
more.

#  LocalWords:  oauth OAuth Auth jcs vj SMTP Hotmail aaand
