#+title: Smartphone Addiction
#+date: <2014-08-06>

Although I like my iPhone 5---and I'm sure I would /love/ the new model
coming out soon---I've gradually come to realise that I'm addicted to
using it.

My addiction is not to the phone itself---I can probably count my number
of monthly phone calls on the fingers on one hand---but to all the other
always-on things that it enables. I find myself checking, reading,
sharing, updating things on Facebook, Twitter, App.Net, Instagram,
Google Hangouts, Swarm, Lobste.rs, & Messages. You name it: I probably
have an app for it. I'm experiencing social media fatigue, and I want
out.

Lately I've increasingly felt a need to disconnect from the fire hose
of information & take time to properly relax. I long to go for long
hikes; alone or in a small group; across mountains, hills or wilderness.
I have also lately had a strong urge to take up Archery again. (I was a
member of a club in Canonbury a few years ago, but it moved & I didn't
move with it.) I found it incredibly relaxing and invigorating to let my
mind go and just lose arrow after arrow at the target.

However, in practice things are a bit different. I feel naked &
vulnerable leaving home without my iPhone. I feel it would be unfair to
my wife because she'd not be able to reach me in an emergency. I tell
myself that I need the maps app to find the shortest route home if I'm
lost. But I am wondering if these things are just what I tell myself to
avoid admitting that I'm addicted.

I /do/ want a phone, because I don't want to be completely cut off from
the world around me. But I don't want a smartphone any more. I want
something that can make phone calls, and possibly send messages. I have
lately thought about replacing the iPhone with an iPad Mini. It fits in
my bag, but it won't fit in my pocket, nor can I operate it
one-handed. Thus I'm hoping I won't feel compelled to carry it & keep
checking it everywhere.

I expect I'll miss the camera the most from my iPhone. The iPhone 5
camera is really rather good---and I expect the camera on the next model
is even better. (Apple aren't idiots.) I have an SLR, but the best
camera is the one you always carry with you, and for years now that has
been my iPhone. Perhaps I'll join the ranks of dorks taking pictures
with their iPads.

Today I was called up by Vodafone, and it prompted me writing this post.
They wanted to let me know that I'm legible for an early upgrade of my
handset, and would I mind confirming my identity and they'd get right on
upgrading my handset immediately? I told them I don't hand over my
personal details to random callers, so they left a number I could call
them back on. For the reasons stated above, I don't think I will. I need
a social media intervention---not a faster phone to waste time on
checking social media at any opportunity with.

By the way: the cynic in me is wondering why they go to the bother of
calling me to let me know I'm legible for an /early/ upgrade. Is it
because a) they want to charge me an early upgrade fee, or b) it's
because the next iPhone is expected to come out soon, and they don't
particularly like iPhones? Answers on a post card...

#  LocalWords:  Canonbury
