#+title: The Orient Express
#+date: <2007-06-21>

Today Nadia and I took her parents on a day-trip to Folkstone on the
[[http://www.orient-express.com/web/luxury/trains_cruises/journey_planner_uk.jsp][Orient Express]]. We left Victoria at about 11:30 and had a delicious
three course lunch on the way down. The main course, in particular,
was fantastic.

The train in itself was an experience. It consisted exclusively of
British Pullman carriages; ours was the Ibis, built in 1925. We had our
own compartment, and people in white uniforms falling over themselves to
make sure we had a comfortable journey.

Even the /toilet/ was spacious, and came complete with a huge marble
sink and naked lady mosaic flooring. I also liked that it had
honest-to-god coat-hangers so you could hang your coat up properly
whilst riding the porcelain bus. None of those pert knobs on the wall
that leaves your jacket a funny shape afterwards. Oh, no.

As we arrived at Folkstone Harbour Band a four-piece band started
playing 1920's music. Well, it sounded like 1920's music to me, at
least. They were jolly, and pretty good, and added a /great/ atmosphere.

We were taken by bus up to Grand and Metropole hotels, where we spent a
good 80 minutes stretching our legs trotting around the grounds and
lounging in the bar. Nadia and I also had a good laugh at a Japanese
woman with one of the weirdest head-garments I've ever seen. It looked
like she'd super-glued half a surf-board to her forehead. It was
/hilarious/. I wish I managed to get a picture of it, but I was laughing
too hard.

We left an hour late from Folkstone, but the driver managed to rein in
about three quarters of that, making our homeward trip a little bouncier
than I'd liked. It meant that if we filled our tea-cups more than one
third up, they /would/ spill if we didn't hold on to them all the time.
Other than that, the sandwiches, scones, clotted cream, jam, and cakes
were all wonderful.

#  LocalWords:  Folkstone Metropole
